1. The novel begins with a series of letters from Robert Walton to his sister in which he describes his journey to the Arctic and his plans to find a passage to the Pacific.

2. Walton rescues a stranger, Victor Frankenstein, from a dogsled and brings him back to his ship.

3. Frankenstein tells Walton his story.

4. Frankenstein grew up in Geneva with his parents and younger brother, William.

5. When he was a young boy, Frankenstein's mother died of a fever.

6. Frankenstein was very close to his father, but he became increasingly interested in science and experimenting with electricity.

7. Frankenstein went to university in Ingolstadt, where he met Professor Waldman.

8. Waldman introduced Frankenstein to the dark side of science, and Frankenstein became obsessed with the idea of creating life.

9. Frankenstein created a creature from body parts of dead people and animals, and he brought it to life using electricity.

10. The creature was hideous, and Frankenstein was horrified by what he had done.

11. He abandoned the creature, and it fled.

12. The creature learned how to survive on its own, and it became bitter and angry at Frankenstein for abandoning it.

13. The creature decided to get revenge on Frankenstein by killing his loved ones.

14. First, the creature killed Frankenstein's best friend, Henry Clerval.

15. Then, the creature killed Frankenstein's new bride, Elizabeth, on their wedding night.

16. Frankenstein's father died of grief soon after.

17. The creature demanded that Frankenstein make him a mate, but Frankenstein refused.

18. The creature threatened to kill more of Frankenstein's loved ones if he did not comply, so Frankenstein reluctantly began working on a second creature.

19. Before he could finish, however, Frankenstein's father-in-law tracked down the creature and tried to kill him.

20. The creature fled, and Frankenstein destroyed his work on the second creature.

21. The creature later reappeared and explained his actions to Frankenstein.

22. He begged Frankenstein to create a mate for him, but Frankenstein still refused.

23. The creature vowed to be with Frankenstein until he died, and then he would kill himself.

24. Frankenstein eventually succumbed to illness, and the creature kept his promise.

25. The creature killed himself, and Frankenstein's body was never found.