1. Mr. Bennet is informed by a letter from Mr. Collins that he is soon to inherit the Longbourn estate, as Mr. Bennet has no sons. He relays this news to his wife and five daughters.

2. The Bennet family meets Mr. Collins, their new neighbor, at a ball. Mr. Collins is a very pompous and self-important man, and Elizabeth Bennet takes an instant dislike to him.

3. Mr. Collins proposes to Elizabeth, who politely declines. He then asks her sister, Jane, who also declines.

4. Mr. Bingley, a wealthy young man, rents the nearby estate of Netherfield Park. He, his sister, and his good friend Mr. Darcy come to town and attend a ball at the assembly rooms.

5. At the ball, Mr. Darcy dances only once, with Miss Bingley. He appears haughty and aloof, and Elizabeth Bennet overhears Miss Bingley and Mr. Darcy talking about her, in which Mr. Darcy calls her “tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt me.”

6. Jane Bennet becomes ill and has to stay at Netherfield Park. Elizabeth goes to stay with her, and during her stay, Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy begin to get to know each other better and form a tentative friendship.

7. Elizabeth returns home, and Mr. Bingley and Mr. Darcy come to visit. The two men are very different in their behavior towards the Bennet sisters – Mr. Bingley is warm and friendly, while Mr. Darcy is reserved and aloof.

8. Mr. Bingley invites the Bennet sisters to a ball at Netherfield Park. Elizabeth goes, against her mother’s wishes, and has a very enjoyable time. Mr. Darcy dances with her twice, and they appear to be getting along well.

9. Mr. Collins proposes to Elizabeth again, and she once again refuses him. He then asks her younger sister, Lydia, who accepts.

10. Lydia Bennet elopes with Mr. George Wickham, a young man of dubious character. Mr. Wickham had formerly been friends with Mr. Darcy, but the two had a falling out.

11. Mr. Bennet goes to London to try and find Lydia and Mr. Wickham. Elizabeth goes with him, and while they are there they run into Mr. Darcy, who is also in search of the eloping couple.

12. Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy find Lydia and Mr. Wickham and persuade them to return to Longbourn. Lydia is married to Mr. Wickham in a hasty ceremony.

13. Mr. Bingley and Mr. Darcy leave for London, and it is evident that Mr. Bingley is very much in love with Jane. Elizabeth is worried that Mr. Darcy may have been responsible for separating the two.

14. Elizabeth visits her friend, Charlotte Lucas, who is now married to Mr. Collins. Elizabeth is not happy with the marriage, as she feels that Charlotte has sacrificed herself for security.

15. Elizabeth receives a letter from Jane, who is now in London. Jane has met Mr. Bingley’s sister, Miss Bingley, and she is not impressed.

16. Elizabeth goes to stay with her Aunt and Uncle Gardiner in Derbyshire. While there, she visits Pemberley, the estate of Mr. Darcy. She is surprised to find that she feels welcome there, despite her initial dislike of Mr. Darcy.

17. Elizabeth and the Gardiners run into Mr. Darcy while they are touring Pemberley. He is cordial and polite, and Elizabeth begins to see him in a new light.

18. Elizabeth returns home, and shortly thereafter Mr. Darcy comes to visit. He proposes to her, and after initially refusing him, she finally accepts.

19. The Bennet sisters are all married and settled, and the novel ends with a reflection on the importance of marriage for happiness and security.