1. Dr. Watson is waiting at Baker Street for Sherlock Holmes to return from a case 
2. Mrs. Hudson, their landlady, comes in to announce that a gentleman is there to see Holmes 
3. The gentleman turns out to be an old friend of Holmes', Mr. Stamford, who has come to offer him a place to stay at his boarding house 
4. Stamford tells Watson that he has already met Holmes' new roommate, a Mr. Neil Swain 
5. Stamford leaves and Holmes soon returns, excited to have a new case 
6. He explains that a woman, Mrs. Warren, came to see him and told him about her husband's strange behavior 
7. Mrs. Warren's husband, Neville, has been acting very strangely since he came back from India and she is worried about him 
8. Holmes and Watson go to Mrs. Warren's house to meet Neville 
9. Neville is a tall, thin man with a very dark complexion and he is very nervous 
10. He tells them that he has been having nightmares and that he is afraid to go to sleep 
11. Mrs. Warren tells them that Neville has been behaving very differently since he came back from India and she is worried about him 
12. Holmes and Watson go to India to try to find out what happened to Neville 
13. They meet with Neville's old friend, Colonel Sebastian Moran, who tells them that Neville was involved in a very strange incident while he was in India 
14. Moran tells them that Neville was part of a group of British soldiers who were attacked by a group of native Indians 
15. The Indians were led by a man called the Maharaja, who was a very powerful magician 
16. The Maharaja put a spell on Neville and the other soldiers, which made them all very ill 
17. Neville was the only one who survived and he was sent back to England 
18. Moran tells Holmes and Watson that he believes the Maharaja is still after Neville and that he is in danger 
19. Holmes and Watson go to see the Maharaja 
20. The Maharaja tells them that he is not after Neville and that he is not a magician 
21. He tells them that Neville is in danger from someone else 
22. Holmes and Watson go back to England and they find out that Neville has been murdered 
23. They also find out that Moran was the one who killed him 
24. Moran is arrested and Holmes and Watson solve the case